we're gonna start with boole's so for
those of you guys don't know bulliest we
had bully asan stream some time ago and
frankly i don't even remember what we
talked about I just remember I told him
to clean clean his [ __ ] room in his
playing maplestory come on man let's get
started
Julius
listen listen maplestory's close the
executables Brooke okay I don't know
what that means okay can you guys hear
bully Asst
uh yeah he's the slow rolling deprived
you guys from Albert that's right
yeah you got it that's me okay
can you guys hear okay nice okay that or
what are we calling you bully assert did
I ask you your real name before
I mean it's Matt so what did you prefer
but whatever
I don't know I believe I guess because
I'm used to but ok so bully Asst oh
there you go
what's the origin of the word booyah s'
black desert and I was like I don't know
what to name this pet the stupid little
bird thing so I was like I don't know
Bulli astounds kind of cool something
with that and then I was like alright
you know what this is my new username I
like it okay so bulliest helped me
understand a little bit about because
it's been a while and I have a short
memory and so I do remember that we
talked about Dark Souls I remember that
we talked about you being a slow-rolling
deprived and that you know that's no way
to go through life I don't know what the
[ __ ] that means anymore
so you do you why don't you why don't
you fill us in about what we talked
about and yes so like tell me like like
what was your recollection of the last
time we talked and my memory isn't the
best either
maybe but whenever you ask me that it
comes up blank so okay so tell us a
little bit about why you came on stream
in the first place um I feel like I have
a lot of like personal issues that
people can probably relate to or that
can be solved by somebody who knows what
they're doing such as yourself so yeah
so what do you think your your personal
issues are um I've been thinking about
it recently for this dream and I think
to me things are like me being very
avoidant okay what happened no I'm sorry
but I was saying you were thinking about
it before stream which is why I said oh
okay yeah being very avoidant and also
like
was the other thing I can't remember
okay so I think avoidance is good enough
so let's talk about avoidance so why do
you think you're avoiding um because I
do things that are very avoidant like
I'll put things off or like
procrastinate or like just if out of
fear of conflict I won't like do certain
things
okay so procrastination fear of conflict
avoidance so why do you think so fear of
conflict sounds awfully psychological so
help me understand what you mean by like
give me an example of how you're a boy
de
like
like for example like cleaning my room
or like doing okay your room is a
[ __ ] mess I thought we talked about
that last time yeah I know I it's been
it's it's a reflection of my soul I
guess it absolutely is
you jest about that can I tell you a
story sure okay so I don't think I tell
stories often on on on Twitch on Twitch
but I do it a lot in my private practice
so when I was at the monastery of this
place called an ashram there was this
place called the quiet zone where there
was like a monk or like a Swami who
lived there and then after a couple like
so it's kind of this part of the ashram
that you're not allowed to go but after
being there for a couple of months I was
kind of invited to join a class like
they said like oh you can go and like
learn from the stood who's like you know
he's like the real deal and so I would
go out in the morning and and go to his
play his little Hut and then I noticed
that like outside of his Hut like next
to his door there was like a plate a
bowl a cup in a spoon that was leaning
against the wall and just like drying in
the Sun and so every time I went out
there there was just this like plate
outside his Hut and I was really
confused by that and so finally one day
I you know stopped being avoidant and I
asked him I was like so I have a
question it may be out of line why is
there a plate a bowl a cup in a spoon
sitting outside your door and so that he
said that yeah you know despite all of
my training unless I do my own dishes I
can't do anything that day I have to
clean my dishes and he gets like people
who bring brings him food from the
kitchen and stuff like that so he gets
all his meals prepared and delivered and
I guess he like writes and reads and
meditates all day long so he's kind of
like he's got like servants and stuff
but at the end of the day he just can't
do [ __ ] unless he like does the dishes
and I think boolie it's like if you if
you want to really get your [ __ ]
together you've got it cleans so at the
end of our conversation we're gonna do
cleaning stream you're gonna stream
you're self cleaning okay okay we're
gonna do stream cleaning stream
sounds good okay and everyone at home is
gonna do cleaning stream too and it's
gonna be the highest value content on
Twitch can I can we do that so that's
good okay and there's a very simple
principle and in yogic thinking that
like cleaning stuff cleans your mind and
thats something about like the intention
out like how focused you have to be to
clean is like you have to think but you
can't fully think like you're not fully
absorbed in it but it requires enough
mental attention to where you your
thought your mind can't spiral into
negativity when you're cleaning you just
can't do it right I feel like yeah
that's what happened last time yeah so
what happened last time tell us like I
felt really kind of peaceful yeah I was
like thinking it was definitely just
those making music while I was cleaning
yeah so we're gonna actually you know so
at the end when we do our meditation
we're gonna do two rounds of meditation
the first round of meditation is gonna
be five to seven minutes of cleaning and
I'm gonna do that too so I have a okay
so we're gonna do this so I want to show
you guys something so this is my
bookshelf and you see this you see that
pile of [ __ ] that's my [ __ ] pile I have
one two so I'm gonna clean two at the
end of stream and I'm gonna clean my
[ __ ] pile so we're all gonna do it
together okay now my camera's tilted I
should really stop doing that okay but
tell us about being avoidant what do you
mean by this is really embarrassing
but I'm gonna I'm gonna give you an
example so like recently basically I
I was kind of being avoidant in finding
a job and also because I couldn't pay my
rent and I was kind of avoiding my
landlord yeah and also asking for help
from my parents because it's
embarrassing and like I feel pretty
crappy about it yeah I was like just
happened just yesterday and it's like I
feel like I can't control myself to a
point where I can stop being avoidant
and like not let things blow up in my
face and then do something about it yeah
so first of all that does sound
embarrassing I could imagine that you
know you feel ashamed about your
situation and so thank you for sharing
and we're gonna try to help you through
that okay so let's start with so you
said you're avoiding your landlord I got
it I got it paid now but yeah I was at
the time okay and and why were you
avoiding your landlord cuz I didn't have
the money to pay for rent and I was
afraid of like him being mad and also
like if I told my parents about the
situation they could probably help me
but they would get mad right so so that
your parents would get mad yeah or like
just like kind of be they give me like a
reaction that I wouldn't be happy with
okay and what kind of reaction would
they give you like oh you need to get
your [ __ ] together you need to do this
you need to do that blah blah blah but
like I don't know that they she with
like how they seem to react is it's not
like it's always negative it doesn't
really doesn't feel constructive it's
like it's just telling me stuff that I
already know very good bullies now
you're you're starting to become
unencumbered so this is this is how we
got to slow rolling deprived so I want
all of you guys to understand that like
when you carry this emotional weight
you kind of carry it but like it
actually doesn't help you do anything
right like knowing your conflict
avoidant having conversations with
people when you carry that weight it
actually like weighs you down and like
paralyzes you further does that make
sense so we're gonna talk and try to
understand that a little bit okay
so when your parents when you have a
conversation with your parents they say
stuff like oh you need to get your [ __ ]
together right how does it make you feel
just bad it doesn't make me it doesn't
motivate me to do anything it just makes
me feel bad why do you think that is
because I know it's true and because
like it doesn't really doesn't feel
helpful yeah what what does it feel like
just like I'm being insulted all in a
way yeah and how I don't know how to say
this what would you like them to say
let's start there my mom wasn't too bad
about it yesterday but my cept I was
worse than she was just kind of more
understanding and what did she saying
well like I'm saying it was sorry and
she told me to stop saying I was sorry
and like I don't remember exactly what
she said but she wasn't really as like
mean about it
and what about your stepdad she was
pretty much just like just get like get
your [ __ ] together like saying he's like
angry with me and stuff he said he was
angry with you or he sounded angry with
you
police sounded he said he was like
frustrated or something I don't remember
the exact words okay and did he say what
was frustrating for him no I don't think
so how did you feel about yourself
like ashamed and unhappy what about
frustrated yeah yeah I'd say very
frustrated with myself too well what's
frustrating about your life right now
like I feel like I have no control and
that I'm generally pretty unhappy and
it's hard to like be able to do a lot of
things yeah I can imagine that maybe
you're frustrated with yourself because
you're not helping yourself out and you
don't know how to help yourself out of
it yeah right that's what's really hard
is like you kind of know what you should
do and it doesn't really help to hear
what you already know what you need to
hear from them is what you don't know
you don't need them to tell you that
you're not you know it's it's kind of
like unfortunate that you're not able to
pay rent like you know that you know you
need to get a job you just don't know
how to do it so it's kind of like
imagine if I went to the hospital and I
said I've been throwing up for five days
and then the doctor said well you're
throwing up for five days and then I'm
like yeah I know that already
and they're like well you got to stop
throwing up you're like well like I
can't that's why I'm here because I
can't stop throwing up they're like well
you got to stop like other people aren't
throwing up why why are you throwing up
like you look around like the people
like like you know so-and-so's kid he's
not throwing up you're like yeah I know
that they're like I don't understand why
you don't stop throwing up like that's
not that's [ __ ] not productive so I
think it's very important to understand
first of all bully is that
so you think conflict avoidance is a bad
thing
or like you think avoidance is a bad
thing right generally I'd say yeah I
mean sometimes it probably has like its
its merits but what are its merits I
mean like if some dudes like at a bar
and he's trying to like get in a fight
with you and you're probably gonna like
try and shank you or something it's
really good together absolutely so what
is your avoidance do for you
who's the guy who's the guy with the
shank what a beautiful analogy bulliest
who's shaking you right now me I guess
no I don't think so
what does it feel like when you talk to
your stepdad not good yeah it feels like
you're getting [ __ ] right I mean isn't
that what it feels like I think that's
actually a great you're getting
backstabbed yeah
with a guy who's using a dagger in Dark
Souls like it's like it's got good
backstab damage you shaken you and this
is a thing like you don't want to get
shaped like it [ __ ] sucks
so I think this is really important to
understand like you say you're avoidant
and you make that sound like it's a
problem right like do you think being
avoidant is a problem not always but I
think for me yeah why is it a problem
for you because it causes me to avoid
things that I probably shouldn't be
avoiding okay so that makes sense but
what does avoidance to do for you so if
there's something that you should do I
want everybody to understand this that
the reason that our mind does things is
not because it's shitty for us like
that's not why that's not how our mind
works our mind does stupid things
because it actually helps us
select having this conversation with
your stepdad how does that help you
it doesn't absolutely
so that's important to understand right
like we have this we don't actually stop
and think about what we're avoiding and
why we're avoiding it like you were you
kind of you're avoidant you need to have
a conversation with your parents and I
guess presumably like the main reason is
because you need to come up with money
for rent yeah and but at the end of the
day like the reason that you're avoidant
is because when you have conversations
they actually don't really help you they
like they're painful so it's like you
know if I'm if I'm cooking and I put
like my hand on my cast-iron skillet and
I get burned and then I don't do that
again like we don't call that avoidant
we just call that smart right and so
when you're like avoiding conversation
with your stepdad because he [ __ ]
shanks you when you talk to him like
sure that's a voice but it's also
protective so this is this is the other
word that I want us to start thinking a
little bit about is that avoidances is
being protective like there's a part of
you that's actually trying to protect
yourself from like getting shanked so
then the question becomes like bully us
how do we like if we want to stop being
avoidant what that means is that I just
run with me okay this is gonna be kind
of weird cuz I'm gonna like do a hop
skip and a jump what that means is that
I want to stop being protective
okay okay does that make sense you with
me so far so how do you think it is and
this is super abstract and weird how do
you think it is that you stop being
protective
you make yourself more vulnerable yeah
well okay so I'm gonna use another
analogy okay so when you're in Dark
Souls when do you have your shield up
when I mean I usually don't use the
shield but okay so your your when
somebody's shooting an arrow at you then
yeah right so like when you're in a
dangerous place so like the key to
becoming like to letting letting your
protections down is like actually not
being in danger like you don't need to
be protective if there's no danger
right and so then the question becomes
like why do you like where does the
danger come from because if we can
understand why you feel the danger and
we can help you feel safe then you don't
need to be protective anymore
right it's kind of like you know like
like when you're out in the world and
you're like armed and stuff but like
when you enter town like you put your
sword away and you put your shield away
and you're like talking to people and
buying and selling stuff and it's like
it's not a dangerous place right there's
like town and there's the real world and
so if we can understand what it is that
makes you feel unsafe and we can
actually quiet that part of you if we
can quiet you're avoiding the experience
of some kind of negative emotion right
but if we can address that negative
emotion then you no longer need to be
avoided so I don't think that the
solution to avoidance and this is what a
lot of people think is like you just try
to willpower your way through it
you're like oh [ __ ] like I have to have
this conversation why don't I just
[ __ ] have this conversation has to
happen sometime why don't I just do it
now work it doesn't work
absolutely
right
some things we have to we have to take
away the thing which makes you be
avoidant and then you won't be avoided
overcoming avoidance is a completely
different thing which we can talk about
like in terms of brute force different
part of your brain what I'm talking
about is sort of like emotionally
processing the reason that you're being
avoided in the first place so why are
you of being avoided in the first place
like of my parents yeah cuz I feel like
they're they can be pretty negative in
like ways or like hurt me through like
words they're just making me feel like
garbage yeah and why do you feel like
garbage like because the things they say
to me yeah and what do they say
like they just criticize me a lot okay I
don't know like specific examples okay
can you help me understand what kind of
criticisms like I need to like grow up
or I guess that's one or that start to
think of like what exactly they say I
think I tried not to take like mental
note of it yeah try to block it out
right so you're holding your shield up
and then you can't see it's protective
it's like you're going into like turtle
mode and why do you think what they say
is so hurtful like what hurts about what
they say like cuz they're like my family
okay and like I care about what they
think
because I'm assuming like there's some
truth to it I think do you think there's
truth to it somewhat I mean I'm not
really sure but I think possibly what do
you think is I don't go ahead sorry like
I don't think I'm super happy with like
myself and like I don't think I'm
perfect all the time so I think there's
like gasps some truth to it yeah do you
think that what do you think hurts more
the stuff that they're they're right
about that or the stuff that they're
wrong about I'd say for me probably the
stuff that they're wrong about so I feel
like they don't understand me what don't
they understand about you like I feel
like their perception of me is that I
just don't care about like all my issues
or anything and I'm not trying to do
anything to make it any better but like
I am like everyday so it's just it
bothers me that they like think I just I
just don't care when I do when they do a
lot it sounds like you're you're
actually working really hard to change
your situation and that they're not even
I don't know if I really am like I don't
know if I can give myself enough credit
to say that I am but I write ooh hmm
what do you think you deserve credit for
at least trying are you trying I'd say
so I mean I don't want to feel like crap
every day yeah so what are you doing
what is trying to look like
like going to therapy and like I got a
job the other day and stuff so I guess
that's like some progress yeah I've been
getting a job to me sounds like a lot of
progress yeah how do you feel about the
job well I feel pretty good I was pretty
happy about it when I got it so how do
you feel now I feel okay I mean I'm kind
of anxious about the job because I
haven't started yet so I'm like I don't
know how it's gonna go but yeah it'll be
it'll be good so I'll try it out
so I bully us I think it can be really
hard when you turn to someone for help
and they don't how can I say this they
kind of just address you like a symptom
right so they kind of look at you and
they say like oh you got to grow up
because you don't you're not doing X Y &
Z and they don't really understand like
the root of it yeah you know um does
that make sense to you yeah what did you
understand from what I said like there's
more to like they see just the problem
they don't see like the cause of the
problem yeah and then when they start
talking so I think the challenge here is
that like when someone just sees the
problem and not the cause of the problem
the way in which they talk to you
doesn't connect right because they're
just talking they're not really like
talking about like what your experience
is like they're not talking about the
whole picture they're just talking about
one piece right and and so they're
they're sort of like turning you into
just like one version like they're
turning you into a caricature of who you
are
right yeah so what do you think your
what do you think it is that they're not
seeing like that that I that I'm trying
or that like it's it's really hard for
me like I feel like their their
mentality towards it it's like so just
wholly different from mine and what are
they doing sir stand like you can't it's
it's it's it's like a lot more too
complicated than like just grow up 4head
like all that it's it's more complicated
than they make it seem yeah
so what are the complications that
they're missing like it's hard for me to
do like the things that I need to do
regardless of like all of that yeah what
makes it hard do the things that you
need to do like how I feel about myself
for like my um like just there's a lot I
mean yeah if it feels like a lot so ah
very important hold on a second so so I
asked you what makes it hard and what
didn't you say it feels like a lot it's
overwhelming yeah so you said first how
you feel about yourself right that's the
first thing you said and then you were
like trying to come up with other things
and then you said it feels like a lot so
I think we have to be very clear to
understand that there's a difference
between a lot of things getting in the
way and one really big thing getting in
the way because I think that gives us a
way forward so sometimes bulliest
despite your best efforts your mind
actually tells you what's going on
and what it's telling me is that the the
root of this is is the way that you feel
about yourself and that like when it's
conversations that there there are
things that you fear about who you are
and when you go to your landlord and you
say I don't have rent for the month the
things that you fear about yourself to
become true when you talk to your mom
and you keep apologizing you're
apologizing because there's a part of
you that is becoming true the part of
you that you're terrified of and the
reason you hate talking to your stepdad
is because he takes that part of you
that you're that you don't like about
yourself and he sticks your nose in it
and that feels like a shank
and as long as that thing is there
you're gonna need your shield up
you're gonna need to be avoided because
that [ __ ] hurts
so tell me what's that part of yourself
what is that you're who is it that you
don't want to be
like
I want to be able to be true to my word
and like be responsible okay you want to
be true to your word and you want to be
responsible yeah okay
what is being responsible mean
like doing the right thing despite it
being hard
okay I know and okay Tribeca that that's
a that's a way better answer than I
could I could didn't understand what the
[ __ ] that meant I couldn't define it but
I think that's a brilliant answer doing
the right thing when it's hard that's
from the mouth of a slow-rolling
deprived you know I always assumed that
deprives couldn't speak for some reason
like if it's in my mind like they don't
know they're not capable of speech but
anyway so I think truth we can get
behind so I think that you know bully us
we have a lot of ideas around like
psychology and we kind of have this idea
that if you're avoidant you have some
kind of emotion like my ideas I mean I
promote this kind of stuff that like you
know if you solve that emotion or you
process that emotion like life is gonna
be easier for you but I want to talk
about a different vein right now I want
to talk about truth so in ancient India
the path to enlightenment began with to
two steps the first was personal
observances in the second was societal
observances so societal observances are
things like cleanliness
and personal observances or things like
satya or truth and i think that there is
what they believed that there is power
in truth and that's not something that I
like really understood like I don't know
even know what that means kind of like
do you know what that means like do you
think there's power and truth I think so
what is that even since you're good with
words what is it what the [ __ ] does that
even mean
you
I think there's like power in being
genuine and like being yourself and it
makes you feel a lot better and like
also it kind of
validates you in a way okay and I feel
like if you're a lot more honest about
things and people can't really like I
don't think there's anybody in the world
that has like really terrible intentions
really and if you're honest about things
in it kind of validates you in a way
okay so weird per spec it is it so then
help me understand if that's true why is
it hard to have a conversation with your
landlord
because it makes me admit things that I
don't like or that I embarrass it okay
so but how does that weigh against this
power of truth that you're talking about
[Music]
I guess I don't want to experience like
negative emotion but what is truth have
to do with that
not sure fantastic nor should you be
right because I think this is a concept
that's become lost so we have this
instinctive idea and I think you're
right that truth truthfulness has power
the problem is that like we don't
understand how to fit this idea of the
the power of truthfulness in with our
daily lives like we don't know like what
that really means like everyone sort of
instinctively is like yeah that sounds
like a [ __ ] you know it sounds like
if you're a paladin like you can do some
cool [ __ ] and that depends on truth so
like yeah there's something there but we
don't really know like we don't know
right because we don't talk about this
stuff anymore we teach mathematics we
teach economics we don't teach about
truth and lying and what those do to us
like we we just talk about psychology
and emotions so I want you to think
about something beliefs what do you
think would happen like so let's say
that like I cursed you and you were
unable to lie do you think what do you
think would happen to your life probably
improve why because I I lied a lot
growing up in it kind of just
and made things worse a lot of the time
like making them better
because like you kind of lose your sense
of self and you're like flies become
truth in a weird way and also like
it just it feels a lot better to tell
the truth okay now I'm a little bit
confused because earlier you were saying
that like it hurts to tell people the
truth you're avoiding it and you were
also saying that when you lie you become
you said something about like that's
like you become like the lie becomes the
truth
yeah like it it's hard to explain you're
doing a good job but I agree so I'm
gonna toss something out there I think
the part of yourself that you're afraid
of grows every time you lie and it
becomes more and more true every time
you give in to that avoidance
right that there's a part of yourself
that you think is shitty
you're afraid that you're shitty but
that every time you lie and every time
you're avoidant you make that more true
what do you think about that suits
accurate I'd say that's accurate yeah
so what do we do bullies
okay we'll see if twitch chat has any
ideas but I I think it starts with
truthfulness so I think you can get an
immense amount of power over Sofia and
so I have an exercise for you bully us
and everyone at home I want you to see
how long you can go without telling a
lie okay how long do you think you can
go at least a day okay I don't know
because there's like subtle subtle lies
like half-truths I don't know they can
be very complicated absolutely
good good so this exercise is gonna be
very important for you bullies because
what you're already recognizing is that
there there's a certain machinery to
your actions and words that I don't
think you're aware of but if you start
looking at the lens of lying and truth
you'll begin to see these little things
they're like little beetles like
crawling around and shaping what you say
in what you do and you're not even aware
of what they're doing they're they're
subtle eyes they're half-truths there's
like not just lying to your landlord but
like leaving the house when you're not
gonna see them there's pretending to not
be at home and all these other like
little things
now pretend that all of that was off the
table what would happen in your life I
think I'd probably be less stressed
about like like worried about stuff like
that how the [ __ ] does that work like I
thought the whole point of lying is to
protect you right yeah so this is the
other important thing to understand
lying is about control why do you lie
like what do you control like the other
person's perception absolutely
this needs to be understood very very
deeply when you lie it is to control
another human being right yeah how does
that work I mean how well does that work
let me put it that way
it depends mm-hmm good answer has it
worked out for you so far absolutely
right so we think and in some cases
lying does work really well but for the
most part it [ __ ] us like you have to
understand that like lying is your
attempt to control another human being
that's exactly what it is nothing more
nothing less
and so your problem Bulli is is that you
are living trying to control your
environment you're like trying to
control when the Sun rises and when the
moon rises instead of controlling like
what you do your life is based on what
is avoidance avoidance is all about the
other person it's all about preventing
someone from like saying or doing
something to you the reason you're stuck
is because your locus of control like
what you're trying to do is like you're
you're hitting like the what was on your
keyboard and you're trying to control an
NPC you're like when I hit spacebar why
doesn't the fire keeper roll like this
is something that really needs to be
understood so much of your effort is
spent on controlling and external human
being and it's [ __ ] inefficient it's
just inefficient it feels good sure
there are emotions but you just got to
understand you're expending so much
effort the reason your stock is because
your brain you're a smart guy I can tell
you're a smart guy I think like
sometimes when the stars align you can
do amazing things I already know that
and the difference is with this when the
stars align you stop focusing on others
and you start focusing on yourself
like cleaning your room is not about
other people who's it about me
absolutely and when you start doing
things for yourself then like your life
is gonna start changing in Sathya is
about this Sathya is about the real
power of sathya comes when I stop lying
I stop trying to control other people's
actions so when I stop trying to control
other people's actions do I surrender or
do I gain freedom
bleus what do you think freedom how do I
not surrender I mean you surrender like
your control I guess yes and that gives
you freedom we think about freedom and
surrender is opposite ends of the
spectrum they're actually the same thing
that when you surrender your ability to
control another human being you gain
freedom give you guys a classic example
I like a girl I want to ask girl out
I'm afraid girl doesn't like me let me
do things to control the way that she
thinks about me let me lie about my
income let me lie about my past and let
me lie about my job and if I do these
things
girl will say yes when I ask her out and
every time you say one of those lies
like do you think that person how do you
think that person feels when they
construct this story to impress said
girl like Jenny
yeah they feel trapped
that's what lies do to you they trap you
like when you're avoiding your your
parents and you're avoiding your
landlord you're [ __ ] trapped you feel
powerless and that's a prison that you
make yourself with your words mm-hmm
so it starts there's an immense amount
of power if you want to transform your
life speak truthfulness
because a funny thing happens if you
commit to being true your actions must
change right so if you take lying off
the table like what happens to your
actions become like in the open yeah and
like how do you think they change like
you probably care more or it's like you
probably if you're honest about it then
it probably is like more like prevalent
you're like okay this is probably
changed absolutely right so what's an
example of that this needs to change cuz
I can't lie about it anymore
like what's an example of that like what
did you have for lunch a salad or a
hamburger it's that simple if I can't
lie if I commit to not lying about what
I had for lunch I'm gonna start eating
healthy is all those times that you're
embarrassed about what you ate you
[ __ ] lie about it like why do you lie
about it because you don't want other
people to think that you're a [ __ ]
fatty right and if you stop lying about
it then you just start eating healthy I
know it sounds absolutely insane it
sounds absolutely insane is is fixing
your diet as simple as not lying and so
I challenge you to try it see how long
you can go see how long you can go and
then what happens bulliest is when you
see how long you can go you see how your
life changes you see like so like you
want to go a day without lying okay fine
let's see it can you go two days like
why can't you go two days I'm just I'm
not sure I know you're not sure but what
why do why are you gonna lie what do you
need a lie about well I don't know what
I'm good right so when you say you need
to lie what do you what is it what are
the kinds of things that you're going to
need to lie about why would you lie
well I don't know I don't know it I
don't think I would live it it's just
yeah you're gonna lie and you're gonna
lie when you need someone to think
something about you right right that's
when you're gonna lie and when you need
someone to think something about you
that's when you that's when the [ __ ]
starts that's when you're screwed
because then you are letting that
person's perceptions of you control the
person that you are in the way that you
feel about yourself
so Satya is where it begins truthfulness
when we talk about psychology continue
seeing your therapist fantastic go get
some real mental health treatment and in
the meantime like try truthfulness
okay questions thoughts
[Music]
Oh me yeah I don't have any virgin
things okay what do you think about what
we're talking about how do you feel
about it pretty good about it
so always been trying to be more genuine
so it's like
makes sense seems like actually a reason
- yes a reason to be genuine yeah so
this is like this is the hard thing
beliefs to be honest like this is tricky
because you know we have all these
platitudes of like yeah you should be
truthful but no like you should
understand understand the benefits of
truthfulness and understand the benefits
of line
and then you pick you try them both out
in your life like you take a you take a
bite of vanilla and you take a bite of
chocolate like when you're trying out
your ice cream what you taste both and
then you decide for yourself which one
you want I think right now the biggest
problem is that you're operating on
reflex and I think you've you've said a
lot of really important and profound
things today
III think you've you've said that you
know the one of the best things that I
like about what you said which I'm gonna
you know steal and use on stream is
gonna be this whole thing about when you
lie to other people if there's like a
part of that lie that becomes the truth
that I think is really powerful and
every time you lie you like propagate
this idea of like who you are mm-hmm and
and I think this avoidance and stuff
just start telling the truth and then if
you really commit to that and you see
how long you can go and I'm not saying
you can't ever lie again
like a commitment really doesn't work
but you just see how long you can go and
then for the if you can lie if you can
stop lying for one day that's gonna be a
good day
questions yeah thoughts feelings
[Music]
I'm like I'm like thinking a weird like
is joking like lying in a way good what
do you think kind of yes and no
so weird half-baked thought no it's not
a half-baked dot I think what you're
trying to do is figure out what kind of
Lies you're allowed to tell because I
think you're a very good liar
unfortunately yeah
right so so even now you see what's
happening in your mind is you're trying
to figure out how you can protect
yourself and still fulfill the criteria
of the thing that's what's happened well
it's more like I don't I don't want to
mess it up so I don't want to like do
the wrong thing
yes so the wrong thing is to lie right
yeah yeah and so you know what that is
it's not that complicated you know what
I mean and you're looking for a
workaround because that's how addicted
you are to like lying and hiding and
being avoided like what I'm doing is I'm
taking your I'm D equipping your armor
and your shield and then you're like
well can I wear a loincloth like can I
at least get a little bit of armor like
nope no alone clock not allowed to wear
anything that's what you're doing like
Oh what about a joke what about like an
emotion what about a half-truth I mean
sure you can can call whatever we want
you want to but if you find a good way a
clever way to lie without lying and I
think we can talk about that one day cuz
I think that actually has its its
purpose you guys want to do story time
I'll tell you guys a story about that um
but I think I mean that I think you know
right and like you don't hear this story
huh I want to hear this story though
okay so my mom once told me something
very profound which is so there are two
incarnations of this guy named Vishnu so
Vishnu is one of the Hindu gods and
Vishnu is sort of like the God that
helps out humanity and so when evil is
like very powerful in the world he
incarnate s' and then tries to deal with
the evil and so in one of his are
incarnations is this guy named Krishna
and Krishna is kind of a shady [ __ ] so
I'll give you guys just an example of a
story that that Krishna did so there's a
civil war going on in India between two
sets of cousins and the story of the
Civil War is something called the
Mahabharata but one set of cousins is
called the Pandavas they're the good
guys another set of cousins is called
the goat OVAs and they're the bad guys
so Krishna one day they're there let me
just think about which story to tell you
so one day they're Christian who knows
that there's going to be an eclipse and
there's a code of war that people follow
so they fight from dawn till dusk and
like between dusk and dawn they're not
allowed to fight so what Krishna does is
he goes to his the bond of Oz which are
supposedly the good guys of the story
and he says that okay like around 3 or 4
p.m. like you guys aren't gonna they
didn't have watches and stuff back then
but it's gonna look like the Sun is
going down and dusk is gonna happen
sooner than you think it is so what I
want you guys to do is stop fighting for
like 5 or 10 minutes
and then like the Kauravas your enemies
will stop fighting - because everyone is
gonna think it's dusk and then once they
put their weapons away and the ones that
are retreating off the field of battle I
want you guys to pull out your weapons
and attack
and so the the bond of us are like but
isn't i'm confused like aren't we
supposed to like stop attacking after
dusk and the Christian is like no no man
and like it's okay trust me like you're
not gonna be breaking any rules it's
gonna seem like you're breaking rules
but you're not gonna break any rules so
the bond of us say okay so they go onto
the field of battle and sure enough the
Eclipse happens and so like everyone
thinks it's getting dark and so people
put their weapons away and they stop
fighting and then the Kauravas kind of
turned around and they start to leave
the field of battle and what do you
think the bond of Oz do they do the same
thing leave the field of battle I hope
so yeah they do the opposite they listen
to Krishna
they pull out their weapons and they
Massacre people who are leaving the
field of battle and unarmed mm sounds
immoral right like is that a lie is that
truth what do you think yeah right feels
immoral so I'm gonna tell you another
story so a couple thousand years and
maybe a thousand years before Krishna
vishnu decided to incarnated like before
that and he came down as a guy named ROM
and ROM is sort of like this kind of
like ideal human and so ROM story is
kind of interesting so he gets married
to this this princess named Sita and
there's an evil king who is like lustful
towards even he like really wants her
and is disappointed that she chooses to
marry rom and so what what this evil
king his name is Robin you've fallen me
so far yeah okay so what Robin does is
he abducts her he kidnaps her and he
takes her to his his palace which is on
an island called Lanka if you guys know
where Sri Lanka is it's like a little
island south of India so he abduct Sita
and he takes her down there and then ROM
says okay I'm gonna you know I'm gonna
have to get her back so he raises an
army and over the course of a year or
two he fights against Robin kills Robin
rescue Sita brings her back to his
brings her back to his court and is kind
of frustrated because like his court
sort of doesn't accept her anymore
they're like yeah
like yeah I know she was kidnapped but
she was like in his house for like over
a year and like how do you know she was
faithful and like we don't she's kind of
tainted they're sort of very puritanical
back then and so what do you think ROM
does I don't know okay let's see if it's
twitch at things what do you guys think
he does
okay so kills the cork pops okay so ROM
actually decides to divorce her and he
says that my first duty is to the
kingdom and if the court won't accept
her as like a queen and like they think
that she's tainted then my first duty is
not to my own happiness but is to the
kingdom and and so he divorces her and
he's upset and and you know people sort
of say that that's like kind of the
ideal wonderful thing to do but my mom
once told me something very very wise
and she said that if you want to live
like what do you think about that
let's start there I mean it's kind of
stupid yeah so my mom once told me
something very profound which she
doesn't remember to this day which is
that if you want to live a good life
live like ROM if you want to live a
happy life live like Krishna I don't
know if I agree with that okay say
something tell me what don't you agree
with what wouldn't like the guilt weigh
you down if you look like Chris
I don't know man how are you gonna find
out I mean I kind of have already so I'm
like I don't know if that's a good idea
yeah so what are you saying about your
life bullies what is it so earlier you
asked me you said yeah it feels like a
lot it feels heavy it's overwhelming
what's overwhelming what's heavy my
feelings towards myself yeah and what
are some of those feelings wouldn't the
guilt weigh you down right gilben yeah
is that how you feel yeah I think I can
be I can be guilty over things I've done
yeah right guilt for not doing more
guilt for becoming the person that you
are guilt for creating the life that
you've created so I'll accept it you
don't think that so people say my mom
says that you should be cunning and cold
and that the ends justifies the mean and
that's that's Krishna's path and if you
don't agree with that that's fine so
live the other way and then get back to
me okay
right but that means stopping to live
the way that you are and what does that
start with bullying yes truthfulness
sathya so you're gonna go a day at least
today at least a day pay attention okay
okay so we're gonna see I guess let me
just see if people do other people have
questions I think our featured chat
thing is not working it looks like right
[Music]
let me just see real quick for something
so I want to know like yeah so so oh it
is working so why don't I see anything
in it could I explain Christian how do i
oh here we go okay okay okay okay okay
okay okay a lot of people are asking
technical questions about lying it's the
first thing that I want to know is
twitch at how long are you guys gonna
not lie for like what do you guys want
to do what do you think okay so I'm
seeing everything from like a few
minutes to like never again so I really
want you guys to try this at home and I
want y'all to do exactly what bulliest
is doing I want you to see when you
start when you stop lying what happens
to your life like does it get harder
does it get easier does it get harder
for a time and then easier one week okay
I think that's a great idea
so let's just start again this being
under this 18 hours yeah so so I mean so
this is the thing like I don't care
about hypotheticals right we can talk
about hypotheticals but ultimately
change happens through experience when
you actually start doing things
differently like that's when you're
gonna learn so Bulli is's been living a
life like krishna he's been living a
life of like sneakiness and subterfuge
and you don't like the way it makes you
feel fine so start living a different
way so I'm gonna start answering
questions but I'm gonna encourage
bulliest to start cleaning or actually
hold on do we want to clean is like a
meditation together and check-in about
how people feel or do we want
let's do QA and then we'll do cleaning
stream how does that sound
sure okay let's do questions okay so one
question is how do you avoid being
emotionally burned out from your
interactions with your clients because
so this is what I want you guys to
understand like why do you guys think
bully is's life wiliest why do you think
living your life is so [ __ ]
exhausting like why aren't you like do
you feel burned out emotionally
yeah yeah right so why
I feel like I'm doing it wrong okay and
you know why you're doing it wrong
because you're being inauthentic
right so burnout comes from like living
a life that's fake like living a life of
Lies is mentally and emotionally
exhausting I don't get burned out from
my clients because I'm I'm like this so
like I want to be me like I'm a bad
therapist for some people because I like
to talk and I ask people like difficult
questions and in the sense I don't spare
their feelings like if I have to sit
back and restrain myself if I don't get
to tell random ass stories then I get
bored and it's hard for me but I find
clients or I think the people that I'm
able to help are the ones that are like
open like if someone is like pissing
around and like not answering questions
and stuff that I find tiring but
generally speaking I don't get tired
as long as I'm being authentic and I
think like one of the most exhausting
it's just so hard I mean like I don't
know how else to put this but you know
when you're living an inauthentic life
it's like you're you're like a mage
who's like running around with a
two-hander like it's just gonna be
shitty it's just it's just you're gonna
suck at it and it doesn't it's just
exhausting whereas if you live a life
that is kind of like honest and
authentic then it's actually you get a
lot of energy and you just do better so
it's not that exhausting okay so next
question is bully us about chores like
cleaning etc I think once you start
doing them more often you'll get into
the habit of doing it automatically when
there's less chores left it'll feel less
overwhelming what do you think about
that
I mean the hardest part is starting
and also I don't know part part of it
for me is it's like it feels like it's
never-ending
because there's always many more to do
so I think those are really important
points right so hard I agree that's
starting is the hardest and what's wrong
with it being never-ending
I mean it just it's
taxing I guess cuz you're like I don't
wanna have to do this but I have to keep
having to do it yeah so I think I think
this is this is gonna be important
booyah so one day we're gonna have a
conversation about how completion is not
the goal
right right so your focus is on getting
things completed you want to just get
that rent paid and you want to have that
conversation be over and as long as you
want that conversation with your stepdad
to be over it's gonna be really hard to
do but oddly enough if you can free
yourself from wanting to be done the
doing becomes really easy
that's hard though does that make sense
yeah okay next question
what about lies that you yourself
believe what are the effects of them
that's an interesting question I don't
know how do you know what you believe is
how can you tell the difference between
what you believe being true or a lie
look I'm kind of curious about that
probably feeling what do you mean like
you can kind of sense it I think if it's
a lie
how can you sense it
like when you say something that's a lie
you can kind of feel that it's like
incorrect and what are you in a way what
do you think the effects are of the lies
that you tell yourself
I think they're more than negative than
anything generally I mean so I think
that the main thing to understand once
again is that lying is about control
right so if you're lying about yourself
like if you let yourself believe a lie
like you have to understand that that
lie is serving a purpose for you and you
have to understand like what is the
purpose of lying to yourself what is it
about myself that I'm unwilling to face
or accept about who I am or what I've
done
and ultimately I think if you want to
move forward you have to accept who you
are case in point and we just talked
about you know being a mage and wielding
a two-hander and sure you can you can be
Gandalf no but Gandalf is the exception
not the rule
right like most of us are not running
around as Gandalf and also Gandalf
really didn't use magic so he's
basically a fighter let's remember that
too
but you know I think when it comes to
lying to yourself just understand that
like lying to yourself is is gonna be
hard because you're you're making
yourself become something that you're
not and when you start playing a
character that you actually aren't like
when you start you know like not being
yourself
life is just gonna get way harder so I
think it can be hard because a lot of
times we do lie to ourselves and that
line to our self is a protective
mechanism and what we're trying to
control is like we're trying to control
ourselves right we're trying to we're
trying to control the like sort of the
way that we view ourselves and I
generally think that that isn't hat that
isn't healthy but it can be hard to
overcome right okay
next question is let's talk about being
too honest I don't see what question
that is okay so let's talk about being
too honest fine so I don't want you guys
to take so this happens sometimes where
someone is like I am like a fan of
radical honesty and they say that like
I'm committed to truth and I'm going to
speak the truth wherever I go so I don't
think that that's a good idea like so I
think sometimes people confuse satya
with a license to be an [ __ ] that's
not what's up yes
Sathya doesn't mean like you you go to
lunch with your friends and you call
like your buddy's girlfriend out for
like gaining 15 pounds because that's
your truth you're gonna speak your truth
don't let set there become an [ __ ]
like so being honest so this is the
other thing like being honest is not
really about this is gonna sound weird
it's not about like what you portray to
other people right ultimately honesty is
about like you being honest with
yourself
and you know you should be honest with
others when it's relevant but it's not
like you're gonna be like radical
honesty and like I'm gonna say tell
everything like I'm gonna tell people
what I think about them I'm gonna tell
them that I think they're an [ __ ] and
like I think there's value to honesty
but don't confuse being honest in sathya
with being an [ __ ] which sometimes
people do and it's a really easy mistake
to make and and so you should be honest
but you know don't be too like don't let
me put it this way just because you're
honest doesn't mean you have to open
your [ __ ] mouth so when it's
important and when it's relevant to the
conversation you open your mouth and you
don't lie but it doesn't give you a
license to just share your your stupid
opinion with everyone about everything
that you think that's not what honesty
is about what about lying to save others
from harm what do you think what do you
guys think is it okay to lie to save
others from harm so everyone's saying it
depends on the harm what do you think
bilious you're on the hot seat
is it okay to lie to protect others from
from harm I mean I think the safe answer
is it depends but I think the genuine
answer is not really okay so I'd start
by by not accepting the premise of the
question which is that I don't know that
lying necessarily protects people from
harm I don't I don't start with that
premise so I have been shocked by how
much I think about lying protecting
people from harm and I'll give you guys
just an example
so I was working with someone I was
working for a while on the cancer
psychiatry like consultation service so
for like a month or two months or
something like that I was basically a
psychiatrist that worked with people
with cancer and one of the simplest
things that people do is they lie to
their kids especially if they're young
kids about people having cancer and
that's a very that's kind of like a safe
bet like you think like if you're lying
to someone like let me lie to my
nine-year-old about like me having
cancer so the parents will get together
and they'll lie to their nine-year-old
and they'll say like oh yeah
like dad is gonna be fine he's sick and
he's in the hospital now right like
that's a pretty safe lie like you're
trying to protect your kid what do you
think how do you think about what do you
think about that beliefs I don't think
it's a safe lie cause it's gonna blow up
in your face regardless and it's
probably gonna make it worse because in
there they feel like they were lied to
so that's I think an example of one of
the most compassionate lies irrespective
of whether it's right or wrong or stupid
I think that is the most that is the
case that I can think of that is the
most compassionate and well intentioned
lie I've ever encountered which is that
I don't want my child to realize that
like they're gonna lose their parent and
I want to protect them from that I don't
know protect them from that but you you
can't right so I don't know that lying
really saves other people from harm like
I just don't accept that premise I mean
I'm not saying it isn't theoretically
possible but in my experience many of
the cases that people think that lying
is gonna protect someone from harm and
boy the kind of [ __ ] that people keep
come up with yeah you know like I'm not
gonna let my spouse know that I had an
affair because it's over now and the
only thing it would do would hurt her
feelings right true on some level maybe
I don't know but
anyway I think the thing about like that
specific lie is that like what if the
parents not fine then what happens which
which parent like let's say like that oh
I don't have just gonna be in the
hospital be fine and then they like they
pass away or something then like what's
the kids supposed to think yeah I
completely agree so someone is someone
in chat is asking I'm just gonna ask a
follow-up question let's say you saw
someone in danger the only way to say
save him is lying would you not lie so
my question is what is a scenario in
which the only way to save that person
is lying right so like what I'm saying
is that generally speaking like in my
experience people come up with these
hypothetical scenarios but we're not
talking about hypothetical scenario
we're talking about
oh yeah Jews in the Attic I think you
should absolutely lie about Jesus in the
Attic absolutely oh that's a good one
that's different yeah no I mean I'm like
I said I'm not saying it's a hundred
percent true I think you should lie
about Jews in the attic sure that's a
good one right yeah so I'm glad for
someone mentioning that because I think
that's I hadn't really thought about
that I've never been faced in a
situation where I've Jews in the Attic
so yeah but that's why I love chat I
mean like let me be the first to say
that you know I don't have all the
answers and if you guys come up with a
good examples that's good in my life and
clinical experience the number of times
we're lying actually protects people
from harm is is I haven't encountered
that really and the number of times that
I've told people to be truthful and
counseled them to be truthful has been
like really really important like it's
been overwhelming ly+ okay does not
giving an answer to something constitute
a lie if you know the answer but choose
not to provide one is that a lie what do
you think so you cut out a second so
someone's asking if you if you don't if
you don't provide an answer is that the
same as line
no no not really because it's like you
can choose not to answer something it's
not I mean it can kind of depend but
like if you said I don't know to
something you can kind of consider that
as like a lie like if you knew what
happened but it's like yeah so I mean I
think this is exactly why we do this
exercise right because I think we can
talk about hypotheticals as much as we
want to but I've known very few people
I'm tempted to say none but I mean it's
got to have happened whose life has been
changed by a hypothetical so like these
questions quickly become philosophical
they quickly become hypothetical and
they quickly become academic you guys
see what's happening like people are
asking but like what about this like
what about the OJ Simpson and what about
being a defense attorney like we're not
[ __ ] talking about that like sure
like someone said like Jews in the Attic
I will concede that when it comes to
Sofia I think the right thing to do is
to lie about Jews in the Attic so that
they don't get like killed I agree right
you know I'll be the first to say that I
don't think that that's a relevant
example for your life and if it is
please do the right thing but at the end
of the day like you guys have to be
careful because watch what's happening
as you come up with a hypothetical
question and you answer it in a
hypothetical way you feel like you
learned something this is really
important to understand you guys feel
like you figure it out and the more you
feel like you figure it out the less
likely you are to do the exercise
and this is why people [ __ ] stay
stuck is because they live a life of
like a philosopher where they just think
about things and then think about
hypotheticals and they wake up the next
day and like all of the energy of Satya
is gone because you sorted it out like
just see how addictive this
philosophical thinking is because now
it's like oh but we like came up with
something what about this dr. K what
about this and yeah okay fine you guys
figured out you guys figure it out like
where's Satya falls apart fantastic good
job now what are you gonna wake up the
next day and and try to not tell the
truth like this is this is so dangerous
because gamers especially are like they
get so ensconced in like analytical
reasoning and hypotheticals and
philosophy like you guys are all
brilliant [ __ ] philosophers the
challenge is that being a philosopher is
not gonna change your life
in theory we think about philosophers as
people who have transformed lives and I
do think that you know like Marcus
Aurelius and stoicism I think are like
brilliant philosophies and if you
implement it that's one thing but
philosophically talking about Marcus
Aurelius is not gonna do [ __ ] you
actually have to go out and answer this
question for yourself does not giving an
answer constitute a lie we can say
whatever we want to and you can be
logically right or logically incorrect
my question to you is when you wake up
the next morning and someone asks you
did you take out the trash like what are
you gonna say are you gonna say would
you like some orange juice this morning
like are you gonna do that and how do
you feel like what is that like that's
the question right like you got to start
living it and then you come up with the
answer this is the other thing is
somewhere along the way you guys got the
impression that I have answers somewhere
along the way you guys got the
impression that I know what I'm talking
about
I want everyone to understand this very
clearly I don't have a [ __ ] clue I
know about my life but I don't know [ __ ]
about yours everything that I say should
be put through the crucible of your own
experience I'm not giving you guys a
road map I'm giving you guys like
a protocol to run an experiment that's
what the stream is about is fine you
guys think I'm saying what I'm saying is
correct try it prove me wrong
figure it out for yourself that's the
most important thing okay what
techniques can someone do to distinguish
between the lies and truths you tell
yourself okay this is a fantastic
question how do you tell if you're lying
and how do you tell if you're you're
being truthful
boolie is how do you feel when you tell
a lie
you feel like you're being dishonest how
does that feel like wrong like it feels
wrong okay feels not good so how does it
feel like so there's some dark and nasty
[ __ ] going on in your life and they're
dark and nasty corners of your
psychology and self right yeah and when
you lie about yourself like how do you
feel not good okay when you come on
stream and there are I can't see I'm a
Boomer 1.5 K when there are a thousand
15 of 500 people listening to you
talking about the shittiest parts of
your psychology how do you feel fine
there it is how the [ __ ] does that work
this is the stuff that you strive to
hide
this is the stuff that you keep tucked
away this is what's behind the shield
and armor right this is like what's
inside the turtle shell like how the
[ __ ] does that work you work so hard to
hide it and when you successfully hide
it how do you feel how do you feel
police when you hide him not the
greatest and then when you air it out
like your dirty ass laundry like your
sexual proclivities how do you feel
right
generally pretty good since sometimes
people will like showing you yeah so
when you're lying to yourself I think
the biggest thing to check into is what
is like what is your emotional response
right when someone walks down the street
if I'm walking down the street and
someone calls me a [ __ ] and then I'm
like okay man what are you if you say so
and then if someone calls me [ __ ] I'm
like no you're the [ __ ] [ __ ]
like that emotional response tells me
what how I feel about myself if I'm
truly confident like you suck at life
man you're like a [ __ ] poser I'm
gonna be like okay you think I'm a poser
fine it's your emotional response
that is
the important thing right if someone
says calls you something nasty
and I apologize if apparent I mean I
know return can be offensive so I'm
sorry for using that word but like I
think like if someone is calling you
something nasty
the way that you respond to it tells you
how you feel about yourself and when
you're telling yourself truth or lying
like if you're telling yourself
something that's true like you're gonna
feel okay with it it can hurt but it can
still feel like liberating it can feel
free and lying feels protective it like
protects you from that negative emotion
but you feel like [ __ ] so I think that
like that's a really important thing so
like how do you feel when you speak
something right does it feel like you're
you're getting through something and you
feel like lighter at the end of it or do
you feel heavier at the end of it and
that's I think the biggest way you can
tell okay so madam Faye is asking oh god
there's so many questions okay we're
gonna do like a few more questions now
we're gonna do meditation
okay so Matt twitch user says what would
you say if you're lying to someone in a
position of power over over you who has
something against you so this is in
general like I'm not I guess I'm about
to promote Hinduism but it's not I don't
really I don't think it's promoting
Hinduism one of the reasons I like
Hinduism like the reason I've gained a
lot of value out of it does not even in
Hinduism really but one of the reasons I
like stories like the Mahabharata is
because there is this dichotomy between
Rama and Krishna that at the end of the
day like Christian is a shady
[ __ ] and sometimes I think the
lesson that I learned from my mom and
sort of reading some of these things
from Hinduism these are in all religions
and also had like secular stuff right
like there's wisdom all over the place
is that there isn't like one system of
morality so what I like about Eastern
religions is that they don't sort of
start with this idea that there's an
objective right and there's an objective
wrong in the east there's karma
there's just cause and effect and so if
I throw something up in the air it's
gonna come down and we're the ones who
place a value judgement about what we
like and what we don't like
but I think what I like about like this
ROM versus Christian a dichotomy and I
talk about this a lot with my patients
like who are in investment banking and
executives and they're like power
struggles and things like that is that I
don't think that there is like a stock
answer to things and I think that there
are like the whole point behind like
Krishna also being called God is that he
did things that are super shady and I
think that like what the lesson that I
take away from that is that sometimes
you have to do things that are shady if
you want to move forward in life if you
want to be happy in life sometimes you
have to do things that are shady and
that if you're you're kind of like an
open-ended like honest like naive kind
of guy you're gonna get screwed that's I
think one of the lessons that I learned
from the Mahabharat okay our Hindu tales
not hypothetical though they're
absolutely hypothetical that's the whole
point right I mean maybe they're
historically accurate I don't know
there's some people sort of claim that
this stuff is real or not real I mean I
think the main question is not whether
they're real or hypothetical the main
question is what you know what do we
take away from them like what can you
learn from like reading stories and
listening to stories and things like
that how can you apply some of these
principles and test them in their own in
your own life okay okay so too many
questions alright so Bulli as' well I'm
gonna ask you guys we're gonna we're
gonna sort of stop questions here for a
second so I'm gonna ask you guys do you
guys want to do do y'all want to do do
y'all want to do cleaning meditation
first or regular meditation first okay
so this is so we're gonna do cleaning
meditation first okay so this is what I
want you guys to do I want you to close
your eyes sit up straight and just feel
feel it's gonna sound weird feel
yourself don't touch yourself feel
yourself alright so close your eyes
and just feel who you are and just take
stock don't [ __ ] type and twitch at
you're typing into a chat you're not
doing it so twitch chat needs to be
quiet close your eyes and just take a
moment to like feel the person that you
are like take stock of what's going on
in your mind what's going on in your
chest what's going on in your breath
just take a snapshot this is the before
okay and now open your eyes and we're
gonna clean for five minutes just five
minutes so clean for five minutes go boo
Leah's and the rest of twitch chat okay
so I'm trying to figure out what do you
guys think I should do should I go
through the business cards of people
that I'm returning stuff to or that I
need to reach out to or should I write
all these emails to yeah
like actually clean okay business cards
I think you're right okay
[Music]
you
okay I think we're gonna clean for like
two more minutes all right so I'm gonna
start writing emails I guess I can't do
this
[Music]
I think that's five minutes okay fine so
close your eyes with it mean yeah you
and everyone else
how do you feel talk to me
Julius
um
like a tiny bit better yeah in what way
a little bit later
that's how it works okay support it
active
you
good
okay so now we're going to yes there's a
long way to go so bully us or you can
clean your room today am I gonna what
are you gonna clean your room today sure
why not
okay good is that a lie no no sir
sucking my through also don't die have a
very sensitive reflex okay okay so now
we're going to do another meditation
okay bullies you can pass on this so
we're gonna do some ignite chakra
meditation because we did the third eye
meditation don't eat no eating
yeah no you can't do this while you're
eating okay all right so
this is gonna be weird so I use my
middle finger and I normally just have
it out but I'm gonna have the thumb too
because normally I don't have the thumb
out but then I can get banned on twitch
so what I want you guys stop eating you
can't do you want to okay you can't you
have to finish your food and then you
can meditate you shouldn't eat while you
meditate okay okay so do this alright so
I want you to take about one centimeter
away from the point where your where I
browse me sit up straight and then I
want you to just hover your finger close
your eyes and hover your finger over the
point where your eyebrows me
just focus on that part of your forehead
don't touch just hover it right above
that part
keep it there eyes closed
you
hold the finger there no contact with
the skin
just focus on the sensation
you
now relax your hand
let it come down continue to concentrate
on that point of your forehead
towards it
and now take a deep breath in and exhale
slowly deep breath in exhale for five
seconds breathe in exhale for seven last
breath in exhale for nine now take your
palms put your palms together in front
of you rub your palms together feel the
friction the heat and cup them over your
eyes slowly open your eyes let your
palms come down
how do you feel feel all right I kind of
switched to the ADHD one where you focus
on other noises and stuff because I was
just like that's a good focused on I
really don't understand dog giving me
please okay sorry huh
my buddy kept damning me and I'm like
stop damning you about just sending
thing dumb stuff to me anyways what were
you saying yeah I'm just trying to keep
up with twitch at I'm so some people
yeah so this is important right so miss
gifs gummy dealer says I feel like a
horn is gonna burst out of my forehead
so this is what I want you guys to
understand okay meditation is not about
like inner peace like sure you feel I
know that you guys like feel calmer and
stuff and like that's important but the
reason I like to meditate is because I
really enjoy spiritual experiences I
like I enjoy experiencing strange
sensations I enjoy understanding and
having experiences of like the self that
are beyond like what happens in my mind
and if you guys can't concentrate that's
okay we're gonna teach you a lot of
different meditation techniques but what
I want y'all to understand is that like
if you feel like strange sensations and
meditation as long as you're not scary
or painful or things like that continue
doing that practice because those
feelings are a sign that the meditation
is working properly if you don't feel
that that's okay too this meditation
isn't for everyone
so bulliest defaulted to something else
which is fine so we're gonna teach a lot
of different meditation techniques the
goal of teaching meditation on the
stream so you guys need to understand
this minds are different not everyone's
mind is the same and the reason that
there are dozens or 112 different kinds
of meditation techniques is that for
different minds a different technique is
going to attain
help you attain like that peaceful state
of mind or give you give you a sense of
your true self for all kinds of other
like random you know Lululemon yoga
hippy kind of stuff and so try the
different techniques see what works for
you see what doesn't and you'll know
when it works you'll start to have
you'll start to have different
experiences as you do different
techniques and do what works and a
bulliest yes so this is important right
I want you guys to see what did bully us
just do what did you do Bert
nope before that I don't know it's like
focused on the tree noises outside yeah
he opened his window right he pulled his
shades back why'd you do that cuz I was
getting warm and cuz I kind of liked the
noise yeah good like your room looks but
better like like like your face looks
better how do you feel like a little
better yeah so I think when you first
came on you were smiling too but it was
an embarrassed kind of smile it was like
kind of a shot like see you just did it
again that was an embarrass my you're
there it is so that's the embarrassed
smile right self-conscious yeah yeah so
but but that's not how you felt before
right so can you go back to that is it
working or hard
well if I'm thinking about it it's hard
good trying so stop thinking about it
and do right so listen to the noises
close your eyes feel the wind
feel that feeling of embarrassment and
then return to the wind return to the
sounds that you hear the sound of my
voice to other sounds that you hear and
notice that that embarrassment is
holding on just a tiny bit which is okay
let it be there let the feeling be there
right and with it parallel to it also
within you notice that peacefulness
understand that that embarrassment is
gonna be there that's okay how do you
feel about being embarrassed like fun
yeah that's the [ __ ] point right so
your embarrassment in your emotions keep
you from doing the things that you need
to do so what you need to learn is how
to be fine with it
embarrassment restricts who you are it
restricts what you're able to do in life
and when you meditate you can learn to
sit with that feeling and be fine with
it that's what we want right it's not to
stop feeling it's to let your life not
be controlled by what you feel and now
that's not the smile of embarrassment
this is different this is a different
smile can you guys see that it's a
different one the embarrassment smile is
gone and there it is it's coming back
again now it's back you see this is what
we do we turn it on and we turn it off
this is how you learn you learn how to
control your ability to step in and out
of emotion and now bully a step out of
it do you can you do it or do you need
my help
a little bit I mean
good keep your eyes closed game yeah
you're doing it right you feel the
embarrassment is still there we're not
making it go away this is really
important because people think that you
want to make the emotion go away so it
doesn't control you anymore that's what
I'm like bulliest thinks that as long as
the shame is there his behavior is going
to be controlled he wants the shame to
go away no no no that's not the goal the
goal is to air it out let it be there
and now the genuine smile starts to
return again can you guys see like can
y'all tell or is this like am i
hallucinating or can twitch @ tell can
you guys tell the difference like can
you guys see the two smiles that he has
the smile and in the embarrassment
can you get embarrassed again there it
is there it is right and now with the
coolest thing bulliest says you're
starting to be like okay with it right
like you could play with it are you
playing with it Yeah right and that's
what I want you guys to do is to
understand that your emotions deserve a
seat at the table but they don't get to
run the show that you can be fun and
playful with the things that hold you
back right like and like even shave like
you can sit with that you can learn to
like be at the table with your shame and
not let it control you not let it
dominate
and that's how you do it good job today
Belize clean your [ __ ] room any
questions from you before we wrap up not
at the moment no okay or you see you
told me you're gonna clean your room so
you're not allowed to lie okay no all
right so I'm gonna hang up on in a
second all right bro take care good luck
okay